The President:
Hi, everybody.
On Thursday,
I addressed a conference
for business leaders
from around the world.
And my pitch was simple:
Choose America.
Invest in America.
Create jobs in America.
It speaks to my top priority as
President: growing our economy,
creating good jobs,
strengthening security
and opportunity for
the middle class.
Over the past three
and a half years,
our businesses
have created over
seven and a half
million new jobs.
And this week,
the Treasury confirmed
that since I took office,
we've cut our deficits
by more than half.
But we have more work to do.
We need to grow and create
more good jobs faster.
That's my driving focus.
And I'll go anywhere and do
anything to make it happen.
That has to be Washington's
driving focus as well.
But I know that what you
often hear out of Washington
can sound like
Charlie Brown's teacher -
a jumble of unfocused noise
that's out of touch with
the things you care about.
So today, I want to cut through
that noise and talk plainly
about what we should do right
now to keep growing this economy
and creating new jobs.
It begins by ending what has
done more than anything else
to undermine our economy
over the past few years -
and that's the constant
cycle of manufactured crises
and self-inflicted wounds.
I was glad to hear
the Republican leader
in the Senate say this week
that they won't pursue
another government shutdown
or threaten another
default on our debt.
Because we shouldn't be injuring
ourselves every few months -
we should be investing
in ourselves.
And one way to do that
is through the budget
that Congress started
working on this week.
Now, budgets can
be a boring topic -
especially on the weekend.
But they can also be revealing.
Because they expose what
our priorities are as a country
for all to see.
Think about it.
We can keep wasteful
corporate tax giveaways
that working folks don't get -
or we could close those
loopholes and use that money
to pay for things
that actually create jobs.
We can keep harmful cuts
to education programs -
or we could give more
kids a head start,
hire more teachers
in math and science,
and help more kids
afford a college education.
We can keep doling out corporate
welfare to big oil companies -
or we could keep investing
in the renewable energy
that creates jobs and lowers
our carbon pollution.
Priorities.
Choices.
That's what this is about.
And the stakes for the middle
class couldn't be higher.
If we don't pick the
right priorities now,
make the right choices now,
we could hinder growth
and opportunity for decades,
and leave our children
with something less.
That includes the
obsession with cutting
just for the sake of cutting.
That hasn't helped our economy
grow; it's held it back.
Remember, our deficits are
getting smaller - not bigger.
On my watch, they're falling at
the fastest pace in 60 years.
So that gives us room to
fix our long-term debt problems
without sticking
it to young people,
or undermining
our bedrock retirement
and health security programs,
or cutting basic research
that helps the economy grow.
Here's the bottom line.
Congress should pass a budget
that cuts things we don't need,
and closes wasteful
tax loopholes
that don't help create jobs,
so that we can free up
resources for the things
that actually do create
jobs and growth.
Building new roads,
and bridges,
and schools, and airports -
that creates jobs.
Educating our kids and our
workers for a global economy -
that helps us grow.
Investing in science,
technology, and research -
that keeps our businesses
and our military
on the cutting edge.
It's vital for our
economic future.
So the question
isn't between growth
and fiscal responsibility.
We need both.
The question can't be
how much more we can cut;
it's got to be how many
more jobs we can create,
how many more kids
we can educate,
and how much more shared
prosperity we can generate.
Because in America, our economy
doesn't grow from the top-down.
It grows from
the middle-class out.
And as long as I am President,
our national mission will remain
building an America
where everyone belongs,
and everyone who works hard
has a chance to get ahead.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.